The Foundational Spokesman Club Program covered the following lessons:


1. Lesson 1: This Is My Life: To introduce myself, and to talk about myself freely on my background (religious or otherwise), likes and dislikes, and to rid myself of self-consciousness of what people may find out about what I really am, against what I'd like them to think I am.



2. Lesson 2: Speak with Purpose: To learn to pick one main point from the heart, make it simple, useful, and purposeful, with the aim of helping my audience to get closer to God, learn something helpful about the world around them, or grow one aspect of their life, character, or personality. Do all this with purpose and sincerity



3. Lesson 3: Be Crystal Clear: Learn to make my point and give my purpose ringing clarity, that is sharp and to the point, void of misunderstanding—say what I mean and mean what I say, and make the truth plain.



4. Lesson 4: Add Colour: Draw a word picture so clearly and colourfully that a few, well-chosen, piquant phrases will indelibly engrave my key though on the minds of my listeners—make my subject come alive, be graphic, intense, vivid, and picturesque, while bringing more gestures into play, adding a range of voice variety, and spending verbs, nouns, and descriptive adjective like a billionaire.



5. Lesson 5: Get the Facts: Be absolutely factual, to know whereof I speak. Gather source material, learn to get to the core of the matter, to summarize, to find the crux of the question at hand, to learn to quote substantial authority to back up the statements I make. Make the facts live. Be sure to get true facts, arrange them in such an order that they have real meaning, give them character, and make them interesting. Don't guess or wonder or think or suggest, dream or ponder—but know. Be positive and speak as one having authority.



6. Lesson 6: Stir to Action: Knowledge is of no value except as it is put to use, as a speech is of no value unless it is purposeful and stirs to action. Learn to present my facts in such a way that by the conclusion ofthe speech, my audience is ready to do what I suggest. Appeal to them and show that just listening is not enough. Drive them to the effort of accomplishment. Have in mind the response I want from my audience and lead them to it with increased fervour so that w when I reach my climax they will want with all their heart to do what I request. Adopting past speech lessons and the purpose, clarity, and colour with which I put the facts together will determine the action I will receive. If necessary to gain my end, plead in earnestness with my audience. Use true sentiment nad real pathos. Don't fear proper emotion. If tears want to come to my eyes and I'm not just putting on a show, let them flow.



7. Lesson 7: A Complete Speech: A finished product, a polished, well-rounded, whole, and complete speech. It must be thorough, well-filled and purposeful. My first real speech, after learning all the basic parts of a speech, and an opportunity to put them all together in proper order and produce a mature, full-blown speech. The aim here is to have all of the purpose, clarity, colour and facts that were singular points and particular aims of the previous speeches. This speech will stir to action and give me and those who hear me a sense of accomplishment at its conclusion. It is sort of a graduation speech, a commencement, because from here on out, I will be giving complete speeches.



8. Lesson 8: Attack!: This speech is designed to develop the power potential. It is a complete speech—it must contain all the elements covered as individual subject in the previous lessons—stressing the ability to find the crux of what is wrong with a certain facet of this world and its ways. Make a furious frontal attack! Swerve neither to the right nor to the left, but make one sustained onslaught! Begin with intensity and crescendo to an explosion. Lay great stress on proof and power! Prove how the subject you choose to attack is inherently evil! Prove your point with emotion-etched logic and uninhibeted irrepressible power! Don't scream incoherently in a high voice of frustration, but tear down with deep-voiced power the falseness of this age. In this world gone berserk in rebellion against its Creator there are innumerable subjects to attack. Don't argue, be sarcastic, plead, cajole, ask questions, offer solutions or proffer apologies. Bombard, storm, assault, charge, assail, besiege, beset and beleaguer, one specific subject that you are "boiling made" about until have crushed it from existence.



9. Lesson 9: Instruct!: This speech must have all the ingredients of a complete speech—purpose, clarity, colour, facts, and action—with the accent on instruction, TEACHING! Impart knowledge to—especially methodically—teach, inform, furnish with direction. Educate, teach, describe, unculcate—but be sure to make it plain and simple, EASY TO UNDERSTAND! Bring out the detail in logically organised continuity. Give complete understanding to your audience of the subject you choose. Present your subject so clearly that your hearers will able to instruct others in the same subject. No large, cumberson words that hide the meaning, but make every effort to make your point as plain in the mind of your listener, as it is in your mind.



10. Lesson 10: Inspire!: This speech is a real test of your leadership—your ability to influence, exhort and benefit people by your speech. This is more than just a "Stir to Action" type of speech. Now you need to enliven, animate, and impel your audience. Stimulate nad infuse into their minds a solid truth that lifts them with hope. Fill your listeners with the same zeal you feel—them in an uplifted, positive attitude. Inspire them.



11. Lesson 11: Impromptu: This speech offers a more "real life" situation than any other. More than any other, this speech is designed to make you think on your feet. A man's true character is often displayed by how he reacts under the pressure of sudden necessity! Many great men have made their mark in history because they were able to respond to the need of the moment with decisiveness, with sure, swift, cool-headedness. You will be called upon many times to speak "off the cuff," in the club. These times may decide whether you are going to carry on as an effective speaker or stagnate where you are. Actually, most of your speaking is impromptu. Impromptu means: "offhand, without preparation," and daily conversation is almost entirely spontaneous. Being able to speak impromptu on any given subject sparks a good conversation. People who always have something interesting to say about every topic are a benefit to others and a welcome addition to any group. This speech lesson is designed to teach you certain principles that will enable you to always BE prepared! There is no limit to the number of times you can use this lesson. It is to be used in emergencies, when regularly assigned speakers are not present. You are also to use enough times until you know you are competent to deliver thinking, purposeful, factual, colourful, well-organised and stirring comments on impromptu topics.



12. Lesson 12: Heart to Heart: You have been giving speeches before the men in your club for a year or more. They have seen you under many different circumstances. You know by now that your fellow members are all for you. You may have already served in one or more offices in the club. Now is the time for you to tear down any remaining barriers that may still exist between you and the rest of the club. Be completely honest! Bare chest! Open your HEART! Speak on a subject so close to you to that 





=== 



Graduate Club Lessons:



1. Lesson 1: One Point Speech: Whenever we communicate with people—whether in a speech, a letter, a meeting, a memo or at a Church activity—we run the risk of being misunderstood. Giving this speech will help you master one of the most neglected principles of clear communication: have one main point and say it clearly. When you master this principle, people won't have to guess what you were really trying to say. Mastery of this principle will also keep you from wavering back and forth on a topic, a trait God wants us to eliminate from our personalities and our thinking as well. "But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for he who doubts is like a wave of the sea driven and tossed by the wind... he is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways" (James 1:6, 8)



2. Lesson 2: Persuade: Romans 4:21 says Abraham, the father of the faithful, peased God because Abraham was "fully persuaded that, what He (God) had promised, He  was able also to perform". Hebrews 11:13 tells us that the great people of God "died in fatih, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth." Clearly, great men and women of the Bible were persuaded of the truths of God. But how persuaded are you about your beliefs? And how well can you persuade others to accept and support those beliefs? Persuasive speaking is not a matter of talking someone into something against their will. It is not a hard-sell job from a high-pressure salesman. It is a complex art of mixing facts, logic, psychology and emotion to move an audience to change an idea or concept about a particular subject, or to take some specific action. 



3. Lesson 3: Difficult Scripture: Could you clearly and plainly explain the meaning of God's Word to someone who asked you? This responsibility will confront you occasionally in this life, but there is coming a time when it will be one of your main responsibilities. Even though Satan's influence will then be in check, most of the people living at the beginning of the Millennium will still be influenced by Satan's deceptions. God will use His saints to teach them His ways, to show them how to live the life that will produce peace and happiness. Gaining a thorough understanding of God's Word is the first step toward being able to teach. With this speech, you will gain experience in clearly explaining that Word to others. In this speech, you will be giving a difficult scripture sermonette. Your goal here is to clearly and completely explain a scripture of your choosing that many people have misunderstood for one reason or another.



4. Lesson 4: Prophecy: God has given His true Church a more sure word of prophecy (II Peter 1:19). In fact, a major part of the message of this great Work to which God called us revolves around the fulfillment of Bible prophecies in this end time, and around Bible prophecies about what the world tomorrow will be like. As you should already know, nearly one third of the Bible is made up of prophecies, and many of those prophecies directly condern the days in which we are now living! One of the greatest gifts God has given His people is the ability to understand, through the inspirtation of His spirit what the Bible tells us about these turbulent times and where world events are leading. This fourth speech focuses on prophecy. More specifically, it gives you practice in communicating knowledge about prophecy to others. Like the previous speech, in which you spoke about a difficult scripture, this prophecy speech should take the form of a sermonette.



5. Lesson 5: Human Interest: People are interested in other people. This is the starting point for all truly effective, moving and memorable speaking. Joy and sorrow, despair and triumph, pain and laughter—they are emotions that add colour to the stories of our lives and bring those stories to life for others. Your challenge with this speech is to recreate those emotions and use them to touch your listeners not just in their minds, but in their hears. You need to make them feel your speech, not just hear it.



6. Lesson 6: World News Analysis: World events are moving steadily closer to the return of Jesus Christ and the setting up of the Kingdom ofGod on earth! All of us in God's Church are affected by news events and trends, not only in our own nations but in far-flung spots around the globe. World news shows the unfolding panorama of Bible prophecy. Worsening world conditions  unmistakably point to need for sobered commitment on the part of all God's people. The "signs of the times" are all around us! Jesus said, "When you see allthese things, know that it (the end of this age!) is near, at the very doors" (Matthew 24:33). And again, Jesus warned, "Watch therefore, and pray always that you may be counted worthy to escape all these things that will come to pas, and to stand before the Son of Man" (Luke 21:36). Every membe of God's Churhc should have a good general grasp of the people, places and events in world headlines. And the members of Graduate Club, especially, should not only intelligently analyse and explain news of international significance. 



7. Lesson 7: Trivia: Somewhere, deep in the darkest recesses of your brain, lurk facts that you've held onto for years hoping they would be useful someday. Well now is your big cnance. Blow out that cobweb-filled corner, haul out all those until-now-unused facts and give them their day in the sun. It's for your trivia speech! Effective speakers draw on this kind of trivial knowledge from time to time to help them get a point across or better relate to their audience. With this speech you, too, will learn to take facts that, on the surface, are seemingly void of any possible value and weave them into a speech that will inform your fellow club members while at the same time entertaining them. Don't be afraid to tackle head on some of the smallest, least burning topics of the day. These will be the kind of topics that your fellow club members hardly ever wonder about—completely truthful, but nonessential. They will be the kinds of topics that most people could live a lifetime and never have a need to know. And without your help, many of them would have missed out on the fun. Maybe you can tell the club how the Coke bottle got its shape, or how the zipper was invented. If you're feeling truly adventurous you could explore the origins of chewing gum. The opportunities are limited only by you. In this speech you must present a number of detailed facts in an interesting manner. To do this, you must be organised. This speech is somewhat carefree, but you will need to have it under control. This speech is a great opportunity to practise using humour, one of the most powerful tools available to a public speaker. Like all power tools, though, it must be used with caution. You must understand how it works before you can effectively and safely use it.


8. Lesson 8: Open Assignment: By the time you reach this lesson, you should be well able to give a good account of yourself every time you speak in public. You have completed over half the lessons in the Graduate Club Program, and you have already completed the speech lessons in Spokesman Club. Your listeners should by now be able to expect an interesting and mature message from you. Now, in this open assignment, you have the chance to speak on any subject you choose, and to give any type of speech you feel moved to deliver. Yet all the basic rules you have learned will still come into play as you prepare and give this speech. You still must carefully analyse your audience's needs and interests. You must do thorough research so that you really know know what you are talking about. You still must grab the listener's attention, show them a need, satisfy them with useful information and move them to positive action. Your speech still must have a specific purpose, a clear introduction, body and conclusion. Your audience must genuinely profit from your speech. But you now have the luxury—and the fun!—of giving any type of speech you want to. 


9. Lesson 9: Book Review: Ideas are tools. Staying in touch with challenging ideas expands you and gives deeper understanding of the world around you, of how things work, of the reason people believe and act as they do. But in our video-oriented society, we often find ourselves spending less and less time with books. This speech is your chance to spend time with a good book and then share what you've read with the rest of the club. Just looking at the words, though, is not enough. Thoughtfully analyze what is being sasid by the words. Evaluate all the arguments in favour of and against a particular idea and then choose the best course of action. In this speech, you will read and analyse and important book of lasting value to you and the club. You will present the club with your reasoned, thoughtful evaluation of the book, in the light of God's Word and your own experience.

